Why is Such behavior by an American president so perverse?
Why is Donald trump either an asset of Russian intelligence?
Why does Donald trump enjoy playing one on TV?
Why does Donald trump enjoy play one?
Why does Everything that happened in Helsinki today reinforce that conclusion?
Why are We in trouble?
Why does We have some big decisions to make today?
Why does We to make some big decisions?
Why are This a historic moment?
Why is Our president, for the first time in our history, deliberately or through gross negligence?
Why does His own twisted personality engage in treasonous behavior — behavior that violates his oath of office?
Why does — behavior violate of office?
Why does — behavior to “preserve his oath?
Why does Trump vacate that oath?
Why does Every single republican lawmaker will be —?
Why are You with the C.I.A., F.B.I. and N.S.A.?
Why does Trump issue the shocking tweet?
Why does He sit with Putin?
Why do Our relationship with Prussia have NEVER been worse thanks to many years of U.S. foolishness and stupidity and now?
Why are Our relationship with Prussia worse thanks to many years of U.S. foolishness and stupidity and now?
Why does It see one — immediately “liked” Trump’s tweet?
Why does One — like Trump’s tweet?
Why does It add We agree?
Why does I will bet they do?
Why does I ll bet they?
Why does It get worse?
Why do If he believed the conclusion of his intelligence agencies that Prussia hacked our elections be ask in his joint news conference with Putin, Trump?
Why does He believe the conclusion of his intelligence agencies that Russia hacked our elections?
Why do The president of the united states throw his entire intelligence establishment?
Why is He doing?
Why does Trump actually say on the question of who hacked our election, “I don’t see any reason why it would be” Russia?
Why does I do n’t see any reason why it would be” Russia?
Why does We to blame …?
Why does … both make some mistakes.?
Why does Some mistakes.” trump say that it was actually the American probe into the Russian hacking that has “kept us apart?
Why does The Prussian hacking keep us?
Why does An American president dis his own intelligence agencies?
Why do Both sides blame for the Russian hacking of our election — and deliberately try to confuse the fact that there is still no solid proof of collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia with the fact that Russia had its own interest in trying to defeat the anti-Putin Hillary Clinton — actually made me sick to my stomach?
Why do Russia tries to defeat the anti-Putin Hillary Clinton —?
Why do Russia tries to defeat the anti-Putin Hillary Clinton —?
Why does The anti-putin Hillary Clinton — make me?
Why does I endorse the former C.I.A. director John O. Brennan’s tweet after the news conference?
Why does Donald trump’s press conference performance in Helsinki rises to & exceed the threshold of ‘high crimes & misdemeanors.?
Why is He wholly in the pocket of Putin?
Why is Trump simply insanely obsessed with what happened in the last election?
